---
layout: post
title: "TMP Day 1: Introducing three months long backbreaking goals"
description: 'Challenging my limits - Completing 4 ridiculously difficult programs in a year.'
tags:
- TMP
blog: true
category: true
---

Challenging my limits - Completing 4 ridiculously difficult programs in a year.

<!--more-->

**TMP — Tri-Month-Pack program**

## What exactly is a Tri-Month-Pack?

TMP is a challenging program similar to M2M (Month to Master) by [Max Deutsch](https://medium.com/@maxdeutsch/).
Hereby, I shall complete four herculean 3-Month goals, designed in such a way that their progress can be numerically monitored and that they have a specific target rather than an abstract concept (like “Being able to run at 18 km/hr for 20 mins straight without break” and not “Being able to run fast”).

The four projects are as follows:
- **Sep-Nov:** Developing GhostTime: An anonymous social network.
- **Dec-Feb:** Developing an Introspection Tool which helps you monitor your schedule.
- **March-May:** Developing an AI system which can generate good, high quality music.
- **June-Aug:** Achieving a national rating of less than 1000 on [codechef](https://codechef.com)

## FAQ

**Q. Why are you doing this?**

Because I am an avid learner and maintaining accountability in this way would help me avoid procrastination and ultimately help me in learning much more effectively.

**Q. How did you come up with this list?**

* **GhostRider**

    My dear friend A.V .I. came up with the beautiful idea of having an anonymous social network and from then onwards I have been praising the idea. I would love to see it a reality.

* **Schedule Visualiser**

    I have a habit of procrastination and find myself wasting too much time writing, analysing and drawing my routine. I always wanted to automate it.

* **AI Music Generation**

    It came up in a casual conversation with one of my friends while discussing neural networks and the idea stuck to me from then on. Also, I am learning about Machine Learning and this would be a beautiful application. ;-)

* **Competitive Programming**

    Having been contributing to open source projects for a while now have made me familiar to the process of Software Developement, but I still consider my Computer Science skills to be subpar. Competitive Programming provides a great way to ensure that I keep on track.

**Q. How much time will you be spending working on these projects?**

I am an Engineering student at Zakir Hussain College of Engineering and Technology, AMU and there would be examinations, assignments, community activities, co-curricular participation nearly during every project. I also appreciate OSS development and hack actively on [coala](https://github.com/coala/coala) and [vulture](https://github.com/jendrikseipp/vulture). Other than this, gym also takes up some of my time daily.

I prefer to work on these projects on leave-days and week-ends and during my free time.

**Q. How do you plan to monitor your progress?**

I shall monitor my progress by writing a brief journal entry in the form of a Blog Post everyday. Also, I shall keep track of what’s going on through a private gitlab repository which shall have respective milestones much like https://gitlab.com/coala/GSoC-2017.
