---
layout: post
title: "Phase-2"
description: Progress in Phase-2 of GSoC
tags:
- coala
- gsoc
category: blog
blog: true
---

Phase 2 is coming to an end today (24'th of July, 11:30 PM IST). It had been an
intensive and healthy work-period with a high steep-learning curve. Let me
reflect on my journey throughout the month.

<!--more-->

## Overview
* Differentiate between classes and functions
* Allow running "python -m vulture"
* Choose whitelists depending on used imports
* **Implement a method for source range acquisition**
* Let item inherit from object rather than str
* Create whitelist files for popular Python frameworks like Django

### Differentiating between functions and classes

vulture previously saved the `defined_classes` in the `defined_functions` list.
I just needed to change the `visitClassDef` function which is triggered
whenever `ast` finds any Class Definition node.

### Allow running "python -m vulture"

Changing the entry_point did the work. :-)


### Choose whitelists depending on used imports

So, our plan was to make whitelists for some modules default
based on whether or not thaat corresponding module was imported or not.

In the previous phase, we started shipping vulture as a package. Because of the
change, we could now ship additional data with the package, like the

### Source Range Acquisition

Perhaps, the most important part of my GSoC Proposal.
The idea was to implement such a function which if given an ast node could find
it's end. For demo purposes, we started [source](https://github.com/rj722/source.git).
From the first commit [here] to the current implementation, there is affiliated an
impressive amount of research, debigging and creativity (special credits to
@jendrikseipp).

### Let item inherit from object rather than str

vulture stores dead code in a special data structure - `Item` - a lightwight
representation of the `ast node`. Previously, `Item` inherited from `str`
although there was no absolute need of doing so, and changing it would give us
more command and flexibilty with the design. So, we decided to change it.
The implementation was pretty basic. You may see the changes here:[commit](https://github.com/jendrikseipp/vulture/commit/99ca09ff44cc5b75a6911bdae3416933e8d83c35)

### Create whitelist files for popular Python frameworks like Django

This required me to run vulture over a few web-apps powered by both, flask
and django. Analysing flasky, the book on flask, we uncovered several
interesting facts and surprisingly, we ended up making a whitelist for
the `unittest` library.


#### Other things

I read @damngamerz post on EuroPython and felt pretty thrilled. I also recieved
the news that we are gonna hack PyCon India (or Pune) and make it coalaCon. We
will also get coala stickers. Yay!


It has been a pretty awesome journey up till now. I really accredit this to
both, my mentor @jendrikseipp and student-admin @jayvdb and to the awesome
coala community where every one is so open minded and intelligent.

Thanks! :-)
