---
layout: post
title: "change"
description: Trying to change my habits in a way it feels fun!
author: "Rahul Jha"
tags:
- change
- introspection
blog: true
category: blog
---

Trying to change my habits in a way it feels fun!

<!--more-->

# How I wish to change my life?

The past week had been pretty busy. To accompany this line, I would also like to
say that I feel like I spend way too much time on my laptop (feeling busy) but
not getting too much done correspondingly! :-(

## I want a change
It’s time now — I am not gonna let this cut down my productivity, I will have to
learn time management, and to make sure that this happens, I am gonna experiment
some major changes in my routine.

### Getting back to books again

I have started listening to the book: Happiness of Pursuit

Recently, an article from [Max Deutsch](https://medium.com/@maxdeutsch) caught
my eye — (How to build a self driving car in one month) — which lead me to
follow most of his work and to this book. This guy amazes me in every way
possible — He reads books (a lot). He blogs (a lot) in a lot detail about
everything he does. He cycles. He programs. He follows his passion [a lot**.

I also have gotten the book: Peak — Secrets from the new Science of Expertise.
It’s in my listening list as well.
    
### Learning

[Learning how to learn](http://coursera.org/learn/learning-how-to-learn) 
Started this course - I always wanted to do this course, but never found time
for this. It’s amongst my top priorities now.

### Documenting
Blogging - It helps me to introspect my activities, so I will be changing my blogging
habits, though I want to achieve one blog/day,I will be aiming at one blog every
2 days for now. Also, inspired by Max Deutsch! I find his blog to be an unending
source of knowledge, practical experience and inspiration. Thank You Max Deutsch

Challenging my limits - I will take M2M (Month to Master) challenge this year.
According to Max, M2M is:

> I will spend the next year trying to master twelve expert-level
> skills — devoting one month to each skill and writing daily about the process.

I’m calling the project Month to Master (M2M). I haven’t thought of challenges
as per, but you will most likely hear about it my next post.

## Past days

Now, coming back to past days — the reason~s~ behind these developments: my
to-do list had been accumulating ever since starting of this month. It feels
like I don't have enough time, but now, when I think of it - I have had enough
time! Everything I had in there fell more or less in one of the following
topics:

### Running StackGen
Reference: https://github.com/hanzhanggit/StackGAN

A neural network which converts text -> images. You just need to write the description and you would have an image prepared. How cool is that!!

One of my seniors showed me their video, since then, I was tempted to make this thing work on my machine and see by myself. I spent nearly 6 hours trying to make it work in every possible way, but since my computer doesn’t have a NVIDIA chip, it won’t run CUDA and hence this didn’t run. But still, I learned many things in the process. :-)

### coala
Getting back on coala
Reference: https://coala.io

I am selected with coala for Google Summer of Code 2017. Though, I am keeping up with my schedule, I have some PR’s which were abandoned since I had been busy with exams and then, other stuff. I stated working on one of them, and man, rebasing it was quite hard, especially when one tries to rebase coala with a remote upstream pointing towards coala-bears ;) — Since, I was getting a lot of conflicts, I even wrote a script for skipping patches ;P. I noticed the mistake after digging for 30 mins. That was one hell of a facepalm moment.

### Hacking on vulture

https://github.com/jendrikseipp/vulture

I have some issues pending, but I am pretty sure I can catch up on them. I have had already done a pretty good amount of research.

### todoman
Configuring todoman - https://github.com/pimutils/todoman

todoman is a simple command line todo list manager, I have been using it for few
months now and it’s pretty great. I am also trying to contribute to it.

After I changed my machine, I wasn’t able to color-code my lists, at first,
thought I was doing something wrong, but after re-checking, I finally posted an
issue — In fact, while writing this, I tried to open it in iTerm2 (to which I
switched today ). it’s all colourful and I am happy again. :-)

### Miscellaneous
- Helping my friend setting up her website
- My best friend has been trying to contribute to coala. I have been helping her.
  She is doing pretty great!
- Shutting Down my computer  —  I haven’t ever shut it down since it came! ;)

## A lesson

What I think I did wrong was that I took up all these tasks simultaneously which
resulted in a lot of chaos. I found more and more interesting things to do ( A
different post ) — It was overwhelming. At a time, I had had more than 100 tabs
opened in over 4 windows.

Then, I got up at 3PM today (I slept at 7 AM), and since then doing a clean
up — reading/replying to all the emails. and closing all the tabs. After 12 hrs
of deliberate work, I am trying to get things done. :-)

## Next Post
What to expect in my next post?
- My study plan for this summer
- M2M challenges I would like to take up
- A list of interested things I want to do

PS: My spacebar seems a bit weird sometimes :/ , I suspect this might be either
because of the posture in which I work sometimes or it might be a manufacturing
defect.

I am just skeptical ;p

I am on a macbook air, if anyone has had any such experience, please share! ;-)
