---
layout: post
title: "coala - COde AnaLysis Application"
date: 2017-05-31 23:13:00
blog: true
categor: blog
description: How working with coala changed my life :-)
tags:
- GSoC
- coala
---

How working with coala changed my life? :-)

<!--more-->

# The coala community

With community bonding period ending today, I believe I have been involved with
coala for a while now and I am so proud to acknowledge how beginner friendly,
intelligent and collaborative the coala community is- well, we can almost judge
it from the fact that coala where number of developers exceed the number of
users. :-) It is pertinent to a definition of open source software - where the
users are treated as co-developers.

## My experience with coala

Browsing through the organisations selected for the Google Summer of Code 2017, a cute ~~coala~~ koala caught my eye - this was when I started exploring it.

So, my timeline:
- I started through the newcomer’s guide - an ultimate guide to be a coala developer. It contains *briefly and elaborately* everything one needs to know to start contributing to coala and the best thing is that it gives clearly indication of what next.
- When I first joined the gitter channel, I just typed in `hello world` and boom - I was invited by @sils in a couple of minutes, and lurking around for just a few minutes gave me an idea of how people worked around there way with cobot.
- cobot told me to look for some beginner-friendly issues and I assigned myself an issue.
- I did solved the core issue but had to amend my commit ten times or so to fix small nitpicky things - ah, perfectionist fantasy I love.
- As I waited for someone to review my PR, I would review some of the PR’s in the meantime - it was necessary and gave me a feel of how it felt to be on the other side of the wall. I believe that reviewing PR’s is more crucial than having to actually write code.
- Finally after someone `ack`’ed my PR and asked me to rebase, I was so excited. Solving that issue was a big leap as I had a much better understanding of the workflow followed - keeping a linear git commit history, I soon realised how maintainability was totally worth the amount of effort put in.
- I started working on a couple more issues.
- Visited [projects.coala.io](projects.coala.io) thousands of time, trying to find the best fit according to my capabilities, and finally found out vulture. After reading the description over there a zillion times, I finally managed to have an overview of the situation.
- I tried to delve into vulture, trying to pick up something beginner friendly, when I found out an issue about creating whitelists, that was an easy pick.
- I quickly contacted Jendrik (creator of vulture, my mentor and an awesome personality) about how to finish things. He helped a lot by providing his technically enriched insight.
- We managed to close that issue within a day or two.
- Me and Jendrik then thought of a way of how we could run vulture on different python projects, which would help making vulture popular and help us with making our default whitelist more usable.
- I started writing my proposal - It was just a reflection of my discussions with Jendrik.

All the while, whenever I encountered any problem, people readily helped with overwhelming politeness. It feels so open-sourcey  :-)
